---
title: Week Six
subtitle: Not Just the Boy Who Lived
layout: post
---



This week we finished reading *Goblet of Fire*, bringing the return of Lord Voldemort. While there are many important trends of note, I really wanted to discuss some of Harry's noble actions as an integral aspect of his character development. In previous books, Harry had shown some aspects of bravery for his friends, especially Ron and Hermione. In the first book, he and Ron save Hermione from the troll, with the result being their close friendship. In the second book, Harry tries to save Ginny near the end of the story. The third book shows how he and his friends save Sirius and Buckbeak. While those are all wonderful actions for someone so young, I felt like Harry's selfless actions during the Tournament made me pause and appreciate him so much more as a person. It also helps to explain how Harry acts the way he does in future books. 

After Harry finds out about the dragons for the first task, his instinct was to make sure that Cedric knew about them too, especially since Cedric was the only Champion who wouldn't know. As kind-hearted as Cedric is, even he had "a puzzled, almost suspicious look in his eyes" when Harry told him. While we know Harry cares a lot for others, this time feels different because we can really perceive the tangible cost of this. Cedric and Harry are competing against each other - yet that thought doesn't even cross Harry's mind when he finds out about the dragons. Cedric isn't really part of the reader's inner circle either. If Harry did the same thing with Ron, we wouldn't think anything of it. Even in previous books, Ginny and Buckbeak are important to Ron and Hagrid, both of whom are part of our circle of people we really care about. Cedric isn't really one of those people, especially since he is competing against Harry...making Harry's choice to help him even more meaningful.  

In the second task, Harry tries to save all the other hostages - Hermione, Cho, and Gabrielle in addition to Ron. When he realized he couldn't, he didn't even think it through; he just waited until the others showed up to make sure that everyone would be safe. Although Ron, Crouch Jr., and even Harry himself called it an act of stupidity/innocence, I felt really glad that Harry didn't even think twice about sacrificing his chance at winning for the safety of others. Actions like these are why we never once doubt that Harry is fundamentally a good person. It's why we are never phased even when Skeeter releases stories about Harry's quest for power or when Ron leaves the group in Book 7. 

With the last task, this trend presents itself once again. Harry stuns Krum to save Cedric, later trying to give the win to Cedric. Harry doesn't care about recognition; in fact, he is shocked when Cedric is alright with giving up the only glory Hufflepuff was going to get in centuries. Harry doesn't even take the money in the end, choosing to give it away to those who need it more than him. 

All of these actions show the depth of Harry's character, far more than what we have seen before. Although often provoked, Harry is often quite rude to Malfoy and Snape. Even with that, we know Harry would never seriously endanger them willingly, as we see with the Fiendfyre and the Room of Requirement later on. Ron yells at Harry in that moment ("IF WE DIE FOR THEM, I'LL KILL YOU HARRY"), but we as readers can completely accept Harry's actions - because we've seen something similar before. His selflessness ultimately manifests as protection for everyone at the Battle of Hogwarts. From all of this, we can see who Harry really is...and why he is so much more than simply the boy that met the requirements of the prophecy. 