---
title: Week Nine
subtitle: 
layout: post
---



Since I refuse to discuss the end of Book 5 any more than I have to, I am moving on to *Half-Blood Prince*! While this book had many major themes, one that was especially important was that of love. It drives much of the plot between Harry, Ron, Hermione, and other characters in this book, with lots of complications and drama of course. In Professor Slughorn's first class, Slughorn notes that Amortentia was probably "the most dangerous and powerful potion" in the room. While some of the boys obviously don't take this seriously, Rowling sets up a much darker story of love: the unfortunate case of Merope Gaunt.

We are first introduced to Merope in Harry's first lesson with Dumbledore as we go through the memory of Bob Ogden. She's painted as bit of a Cinderella figure at first - abused, defeated, but most likely a good person worth of rescuing. Her only source of solace was her crush on the handsome Muggle boy in town, Tom Riddle. Even that is taken away from her from her abusive family, as Marvolo strangles her for being a "filthy little blood traiter". After the memory, we learn that Merope tricked Tom Riddle into running away from her, most likely from a love potion. Once Tom Riddle came to his senses, he left her and his unborn child and never looked back. 

The first time I read this section, I felt really terrible for Merope; it seemed that she lived such a miserable life. Even later on, she was tricked into giving up her priceless locket for a mere 10 Galleons and dying soon after giving birth. However, this time around, I realized for the first time that Merope (partially innocently) was committing a form of sexual assault on Tom Riddle. It was hard to notice before, especially with the construct Rowling creates to introduce Merope to us. On top of that, the stereotypical gender roles of sexual assault are flipped, with the woman in this case drugging and assaulting the man. Furthermore, Dumbledore also notes that she most likely felt terrible about it, not able to bring herself to do magic or have any desire to live once he left. This perspective becomes exceedingly complicated because I am left feeling quite confused on who to feel sorry for. With all of her prior emotional and physical abuse, Merope probably didn't understand the implications of her actions at first, and by the time she did, she perhaps felt she was too deep to get out. On the other hand, Tom Riddle, Sr. had no control over his actions for those few months and was forced into marrying and conceiving a child by Merope. 

Of course, the main reason this story is incorporated into the books is because Dumbledore is trying to show Harry Voldemort's life, starting from his conception. Although we can't know for sure, Voldemort probably realized his mother's foolish crush was the weakness that led to her death. This likely was part of the foundation for his later contempt and underestimation of the power of real love. Another element that I have heard before is that Voldemort  himself was unable to love as he was the product of a loveless marriage, especially since Tom Riddle, Sr. abandoned his wife and child soon after waking from the enchantment. With this new perspective of the assault, it further adds depth to this analysis. Far from just loveless, Voldemort was born out of a crime (as we would perceive it today), with guilty parties on both sides. Since this was his beginning, perhaps it was part of the reason of why Voldemort never hesitates in his quest for power, even if it means breaking any and every rule in his way.  