---
title: Week One
subtitle: Welcome to my Blog!
layout: post
---
Hello! This is my blog on Harry Potter, a living documentation of all of my reflections as I revisit this wonderful world. As would make sense, I'll be starting off with Book 1. This time around, I paid particularly close attention to Hermione, as she was the fictional idol of my childhood. As a kid, I wanted to be just like her, so it was really interesting coming back to analyze her character as an adult. Rowling made some very purposeful choices about the introduction of Hermione, especially with the parallels she builds between Hermione and Draco. We first meet Hermione on the Hogwarts Express: a talkative girl that tries to assert her presence through unwanted expressions of her knowledge. After she leaves, Ron specifically says that he hopes that she won't be in the same House as him. Following that almost immediately is another interaction with Malfoy during which Harry has a very similar reaction. I was actually pretty shocked seeing this parallel, especially since it was reinforced multiple times after this incident. Where was the Hermione that I thought I knew and loved? 

After Halloween came around, I was glad that all was right with the world. Yet, during the troll scene, Rowling's choice of casting Hermione almost a damsel-in-distress is also quite interesting. It's the first time Hermione's bravery has been challenged beyond the classroom, and she doesn't really succeed. On the other hand, Ron and Harry manage quite well on their own outside of class, standing up to Malfoy multiple times. The Halloween scene just exemplifies this contrast. Over the year, however, they help each other grow and take on each other's traits. Hermione helps the boys with their schoolwork, and the boys help her loosen up a little about following the rules and standing up for what is right. With the Devil's Snare, it was Ron who reminded Hermione what she is capable of beyond her books. Just amazing how complementary they all for each other. 

Almost equally important as Hermione's introduction in this book is Neville's. Rowling is absolutely brilliant with Neville's character development in this and all the books until the big finale in Book 7. Just a little breadcrumbs that she gives in Book 1 gives me all the feels honestly...like not once do we question where Neville's parents are, though much of the book goes into developing Harry's orphan status. He doesn't truly fit into the magical world either, struggling with nearly all his classes and having to "prove" his magical status as a child. This parallel between Neville and Harry only really become apparent after a reread (Book 5 helps a lot with this), but there are so many instances where one can be drawn in Book 1. Can't wait for more!

