---
title: Week Ten
subtitle: The Boy Who Changed
layout: post
---

Book 6 finally came to an end this past week, bringing the death of Dumbledore and flight of Snape. However, the character I paid the most attention during this re-read was Draco Malfoy. In the novels so far, it has been quite apparent that Draco is a product of his upbringing. He comes from an old, wealthy Wizarding family and strongly believes in pure-blood supremacy. Like all of his ancestors, he naturally is placed into the Slytherin house upon arrival in Hogwarts. As logic would follow, he would then also become a Death Eater like his father, not fearing the rise of Voldemort like his peers have.

Yet, in this book, we see a different side of Draco. The benefit of a re-read is that we know what Draco is going through as we read the book, rather than being left with the task of piecing it together at the end. With the aftermath of his father's mistakes at the Department of Mysteries, Draco now is part of a single-parent household. His family no longer has a pull it once had, as was apparent through Slughorn's indifference toward Draco when picking members for the Slug Club. On top of that, Voldemort is angry with Lucius for losing the notebook in a silly battle of revenge against the Weasleys. As such, he punishes Draco, Lucius' only son, to a nearly impossible task - killing Dumbledore. 

This time around, I really felt for Draco. Even with all that he's done, he was still only a child. Draco grew up with the impression that the Dark Lord takes care of his followers, that he rewards them when they obey his orders. Yet, he had never experienced what it was like to defy Voldemort, even by mistake. Now having experienced that pain through his father, he is understandably scared out of his mind. We see this when Harry accidentally finds Malfoy talking to Myrtle - "No one can help me...I can’t do it…it won’t work…and unless I do it soon…he says he’ll kill me…". This is a real fear of Malfoy, the reason behind why he's been looking so sick throughout this book. His family had invested their whole lives into Voldemort, which backfired into Voldemort having the ability and access to then destroy them. In this way, Draco reminds me a lot of how boys before WWI used to be. They would be so excited for the glory of war, but once they got there, all they wanted was to go home to their mothers. 

Adding to this, I feel like Draco's actions almost foreshadow (or backshadow in terms of chronological events) Regulus' actions. Like Draco, Regulus comes from an old pure-blood family. He fits in perfectly with Slytherin, even becoming a Seeker on the Quidditch team as Draco did several years later. At the same age of 16, they both joined the Death Eaters like many in their family before them. Yet, the most powerful parallel between them is their faltering subservience to Voldemort. Regulus retrieves the locket while Draco couldn't follow through and kill Dumbledore. In Book 7, Draco ends up saving Harry when he hesitated to reveal him at the Malfoy Manor. As such, when we finally do get to Regulus's story, we aren't caught off guard. We know that change is possible - because Draco was, at least in part, able to do the same.