---
title: Week Four
subtitle: The Worth of a Society
layout: post
---

Finishing up Book 3 this week...the early ones go by so quickly. This time, I wanted to discuss the treatment of magical creatures in Wizarding society. We talked about this in class, but I've reflected on this more recently and wanted to share my thoughts. While this book introduced many new creatures, I wanted to focus particularly on werewolves and house elves (which came up the book before). 

Starting off with the werewolves, they were originally normal people that were in the wrong place and the wrong time and were bitten by another werewolf. They get a really bad reputation mainly because of the crimes of the those like Fenrir Greyback. Unfortunately, this prejudice taints the lives of even the best werewolves, namely Lupin in this book. We learn that he gets repeatedly fired from various employers for being a werewolf and is constantly shunned. This actually reminded me a lot of how people living with HIV were treated a few decades back, even now to an extent. People don't really understand the disease, especially the level of risk it poses to others. In response, the public shuns those affected, even though these marginalized people used to be just like them.  Even Ron expressed some of this when he yells at Lupin, "*Get away from me, werewolf*". Even with the kindness that Lupin showed toward him over the year, this bias manifested in even what most people would consider the best of Wizarding society. Granted it was a really stressful time for Ron (with his broken leg and being so close to an alleged mass murderer), it still shows the depth of the bias in this world. 

Apart from the werewolves, the house elves are brought in many times throughout the series, starting with Dobby in the previous book. His treatment from the Malfoys was so terrible, so much so that he was conditioned to punish himself repeatedly. While this was an extreme, we see something similar occurring later on with Kreacher and the Black family. Sirius, as Hermione notes in the later books, was very cruel to Kreacher, treating him as inferior on many occasions. The only one who did not treat Kreacher as inferior was Regulus Black, drinking Voldemort's potion and giving his life so Kreacher wouldn't have to. In these books, it was mentioned several times that the elves enjoy working and serving others and that denying them would be wrong. While Dumbledore of course treated the elves with lots of kindness and respect, I'm sure he was an exception in Wizarding society. Like Hermione, I don't believe that any species is born to be subservient to another; if anything, they were born peaceful and did not fight back when forced to serve. In our country, slavery was justified for hundreds of years in a similar way - that blacks would not be able to function without guidance from whites. However, when this type of thinking is the norm, it's rarely questioned, even by kind wizards like the Weasleys. 

These biases that are in place in the Wizarding World were developed and reinforced many times over the years.  With the house elves, no one questions their servant status. Many wars have been waged against the goblins, as evident from the many times we hear about this in History of Magic class. In all the cases that Hermione found for Buckbeak, most ended with the death of the creature in question. Even humans aren't safe - as soon as they change, even involuntarily, they are cast as "the other". In the end, it takes someone like Hermione to break the pattern - someone with an honest and exceptionally bright intellect to see the wrong in all of this. From all of this I am reminded of a famous quote - "A civilization is measured by how it treats its weakest members".