---
title: Week Two
subtitle: Slytherin - the perpetual Red Herring?
layout: post
---
Hello again! This week I will be discussing book 2, specifically how Rowling develops Slytherin as the collective "bad guy". This is a major theme for the series, and while it was briefly introduced in Book 1, it becomes a central idea for Book 2. 

The sides of good and evil are pretty clear in the first few Harry Potter books - Gryffindor, good, Slytherin, bad. It's really quite a shame because we learn later on this isn't really the case. Still, Rowling sets this up for us in so many ways that I actually felt quite guilty when going through my reread. Even with the first book, the first impression that we get of the Slytherin house was that there wasn't a wizard who was in Slytherin that didn't go bad, thanks to Ron. This gets expounded on much further in Book 2. Harry constantly doubts about his House placement, worrying that he was supposed to go into Slytherin, which he considers the worst fate. This gets amplified with Harry's ability to speak Parseltongue being instantly tainted by his fellow classmates. Adding to this, Malfoy, who basically represents the Slytherin student body for us, is absolutely awful with all his hate speech and glee at the attempted murders of Muggle-borns. Snape is rude and terrible, as usual. And of course, the little thing about the HEIR OF SLYTHERIN being behind these attacks...just icing on the top of the cake.

My point with all of this is that, while Rowling purposefully creates this heuristic of Slytherin=bad in our minds, I don't think we should let ourselves totally off the hook for making this judgment. With Voldemort's rise to power, his supporters pretty much exclusively came from that House, which tainted it in the eyes of the rest of the Wizarding World (and us, the readers). While I'm sure Slytherin wasn't the nicest of fellows, I don't think even he would have approved of the absolute terror and havoc his descendent wreaked upon the world. Voldemort's evil tendencies were projected onto the legacy of Slytherin, preventing any reader from giving any other Slytherin the benefit of the doubt that they could actually be good. Like Dumbledore said, some traits of Slytherin were really admirable - resourcefulness, ambition, etc. Snape's sheer will and determination to devote his life to the memory of Lily made him one of the most selfless characters of the whole series. Regalus stole Voldemort's Horcrux in an effort to stop him in a way that he believed no one else could. Even Draco has his own moments of doubt later on, feeling that this cruelty was beyond him.  

From my reread, having these strong views against Slytherins feels like so wrong now. Essentially, in this second book especially, we end up judging an entire group of people based on the actions of a few that went bad. Voldemort brought out the worst qualities of Slytherin, twisting determination and purity into an insane, bloody quest for immortality and greatness. Voldemort and his followers only made up a fraction of the collective history of Slytherin, but it seems that the whole House became synonymous with them. Of course, we see even Harry recognizing the folly in this view in the epilogue of Book 7, telling his son not to worry about being placed in Slytherin. For me, this strong bias echoed a lot of hate and bias that we can see today in the real world. Certain groups in our society often are judged and stereotyped based on the actions of a few, and I'm afraid I (and most people) were guilty of this for Slytherin the first time we met them too. 

